README.md, before:

# Nginx Access Log Analyzer and Dashboard Generator

![Preview Image](./nginx-analyze.png)

This project is a Bash script designed to analyze Nginx access logs and generate a detailed HTML dashboard with key metrics related to web traffic, security, and performance. The script parses the Nginx access logs to gather insights such as:

- **Request Count:** Total number of requests received.
- **Unique IPs:** List of unique client IPs making requests.
- **Error Counts:** Number of HTTP error responses (e.g., 4xx, 5xx errors).
- **Security Analysis:** Detection of potential security issues, including:
  - SQL Injection attempts
  - Directory Traversal attempts
  - Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) attempts
- **Top IPs and URLs:** Identifies the most frequent IP addresses and URLs accessed, useful for identifying possible sources of traffic spikes or security threats.

Additionally, the script fetches **IP location data** from [**ipinfo.io**](https://ipinfo.io) to provide geographical details for the client IPs. The final output is an interactive HTML dashboard that can be used for both traffic analysis and security monitoring.

### Nginx Standard Log Format

The script analyzes the **Nginx access log** format.

This log line contains the following fields:

1. **IP address**: `192.168.1.1` – The client's IP address.
2. **Timestamp**: `[18/Nov/2024:15:27:36 +0000]` – The time of the request.
3. **Request**: `"GET /index.html HTTP/1.1"` – The HTTP request made.
4. **Status Code**: `200` – The HTTP status code returned.
5. **Response Size**: `3054` – The size of the response body in bytes.
6. **Referrer**: `"https://example.com/"` – The referrer URL.
7. **User Agent**: `"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/78.0.3904.97 Safari/537.36"` – The user agent string representing the browser making the request.

## Features:

- Parses Nginx access logs.
- Detects common web security vulnerabilities.
- Provides detailed statistics on requests and errors.
- Retrieves IP geolocation data for further analysis.
- Generates a user-friendly HTML dashboard with interactive tables and charts.

## Requirements:

- Bash
- `jq` (for parsing JSON data)
- `curl` (for fetching IP geolocation data)
- Access to Nginx access logs.

## Installation:

Clone the repository and run the script from the command line:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/aldotobing/nginx-access-log-analyzer.git
cd nginx-access-log-analyzer
./nginx-today-log.sh
```

## Download Log Option:

For future analysis, the script includes an option to download the logs. This allows users to keep a record of past logs and perform historical analysis.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

docs: enhance README with web UI integration details
- Added comprehensive section about the companion web interface at nginx.aldotobing.online

README.md, after:

# Nginx Access Log Analyzer and Dashboard Generator

![Preview Image](./nginx-analyze.png)

This project is a Bash script designed to analyze Nginx access logs and generate a detailed HTML dashboard with key metrics related to web traffic, security, and performance. The script parses the Nginx access logs to gather insights such as:

- **Request Count:** Total number of requests received.
- **Unique IPs:** List of unique client IPs making requests.
- **Error Counts:** Number of HTTP error responses (e.g., 4xx, 5xx errors).
- **Security Analysis:** Detection of potential security issues, including:
  - SQL Injection attempts
  - Directory Traversal attempts
  - Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) attempts
- **Top IPs and URLs:** Identifies the most frequent IP addresses and URLs accessed, useful for identifying possible sources of traffic spikes or security threats.

Additionally, the script fetches **IP location data** from [**ipinfo.io**](https://ipinfo.io) to provide geographical details for the client IPs. The final output is an interactive HTML dashboard that can be used for both traffic analysis and security monitoring.

### Nginx Standard Log Format

The script analyzes the **Nginx access log** format.

This log line contains the following fields:

1. **IP address**: `192.168.1.1` – The client's IP address.
2. **Timestamp**: `[18/Nov/2024:15:27:36 +0000]` – The time of the request.
3. **Request**: `"GET /index.html HTTP/1.1"` – The HTTP request made.
4. **Status Code**: `200` – The HTTP status code returned.
5. **Response Size**: `3054` – The size of the response body in bytes.
6. **Referrer**: `"https://example.com/"` – The referrer URL.
7. **User Agent**: `"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/78.0.3904.97 Safari/537.36"` – The user agent string representing the browser making the request.

## Features:

- Parses Nginx access logs.
- Detects common web security vulnerabilities.
- Provides detailed statistics on requests and errors.
- Retrieves IP geolocation data for further analysis.
- Generates a user-friendly HTML dashboard with interactive tables and charts.

## Requirements:

- Bash
- `jq` (for parsing JSON data)
- `curl` (for fetching IP geolocation data)
- Access to Nginx access logs.

## Installation:

Clone the repository and run the script from the command line:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/aldotobing/nginx-access-log-analyzer.git
cd nginx-access-log-analyzer
./nginx-today-log.sh
```

## Web Interface & Log Analysis

This tool has a companion web interface available at [nginx.aldotobing.online](https://nginx.aldotobing.online) that provides a user-friendly way to analyze your Nginx access logs.

### Download Log Option

The script includes functionality to download logs for analysis. These logs can be directly uploaded to the web interface for detailed visualization and analysis. The web interface provides interactive dashboards, charts, and additional insights into your Nginx access patterns.

Source code for the web interface is available at:  
https://github.com/aldotobing/nginx-log-analyzer-web-ui

### How to Use with Web Interface
1. Run the script to analyze your Nginx logs
2. Use the download option to save the log analysis
3. Upload the downloaded logs to [nginx.aldotobing.online](https://nginx.aldotobing.online)
4. Explore the interactive dashboard for in-depth analysis

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](./LICENSE).
